---
layout: post
title:  "JIGSAW: Fuzzing Path Constraints"
date:   2022-05-03 10:00:00 -0800
categories: fuzzing
---

## The Story

One of the most important factors that affect a fuzzer's performance is its throughput
(i.e., how many inputs can be evaluated per unit time).
Some people have even argued that this is the most important factor.
In 2018, Brandon Falk ([@gamozolabs](https://twitter.com/gamozolabs)) published a technique called
[vectorized emulation](https://gamozolabs.github.io/fuzzing/2018/10/14/vectorized_emulation.html), which brought a big breakthrough in fuzzing throughput.
By leveraging data parallelization, this technique can evaluate 4096 inputs
at the same on a Xeon Phi 7210 acceleration card, which allows him to fuzz
the OpenBSD’s DHCP client with 5 million cases per second.
As a result, even with a simple byte flipper, his fuzzer can find complex
vulnerabilities like [CVE-2018-8206](https://portal.msrc.microsoft.com/en-US/security-guidance/advisory/CVE-2018-8206).

I was fascinated by this technique, however, I'm not smart enough to come up
with [a good solution for handling conditional branches](https://gamozolabs.github.io/fuzzing/2019/10/07/vectorized_emulation_condbranch.html),
when different inputs follows different branches targets.
So, I started to think about ways to avoid this problem and one day an idea
came to my mind: why not fuzz the path constraints?

### Benefits

Path constraints are essentially sliced execution traces relevant to a branch
we want to negate.
More importantly, if we transform path constraints to disjunctive normal form (DNF),
then each sub-clause is (or can be simplified into) a set of relational operations
connected with logical AND operations, where each relational operation is
simple straight-line function.
There are several benefits of fuzzing path constraints (i.e., a set of straight-line function).

1. Apparently, invoking a set of simple functions by nature is orders of magnitude faster than
   executing the whole program under test.

2. When evaluating a new test input with these functions, the input can be passed
   through registers and memory instead of the file system,
   which eliminates the [file system bottleneck](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3133956.3134046).

3. Because path constraints do not update any global state, these functions are side-effect free (i.e., pure).
   So, evaluating new inputs with them avoids any state resetting process (e.g., snapshot or fork).

4. Also Because every JIT'ed function is pure (i.e., independent of each other),
   we can linearly scale the fuzzing threads to multiple cores without worrying about data races and synchronization.

5. Because these functions are free of branches, it is easier for modern processors to exploit
   instruction-level parallelism (i.e., no mis-speculation) and
   to **adopt SIMD (Single Instruction Multiple Data) instructions**.

In other words, applying vectorized emulation to fuzz path constraints is much easier.

### Technical Details

Since we already have a fast constraint collector [Kirenenko](https://chengyusong.github.io/fuzzing/2020/11/18/kirenenko.html)
that can trace path constraints at the LLVM IR level,
we decided to use LLVM's JIT engine to compile the path constraints into native functions
and fuzz them.
Working with LLVM IR also makes it easier to vectorize the code.
The drawback, however, is that the JIT engine is quite slow,
so if we don't do any optimizations, most time would be spent on JIT compiling.

#### Code Cache

The first natural idea to try is to add a code cache, so we can avoid compiling
the same constraints again and again.
However, if we use the entire path constraints as key to do lookup,
then the cache hit rate is not high.
To solve this problem, we leveraged the observation that though individual
constraints could be different (e.g., `a > 10`, `b > 20`, `30 > c`),
they all perform the same comparison.
Therefore, we can use the same function to solve all of them,
by parameterizing both symbolic and concrete operands:

```c
gt(x, y) { return y - x; }
``` 

Following is the effectiveness of different caching strategies,
when solving 20,000 constraints from `readelf`.

Caching       | Hit Rate |  JIT | Searching | Throughput
:-------------| -------: | ----:| ---------:| ------------:
Disabled      |      N/A | 33.9s|     12.6s | 229K inputs/s
Full AST      |    66.9% | 12.1s|     12.6s | 394K inputs/s
Normalized AST|    99.9% |  0.7s|     12.6s | 747K inputs/s


#### Fuzzing Heuristic

Next, how to we fuzz/solve the path constraints?
There are many heuristic we can apply, as studied in [FuzzySat](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.06580).
In JIGSAW, we used the gradient-guided search from [Angora](https://www.cs.ucdavis.edu/~hchen/paper/chen2018angora.pdf),
for two main reasons:
(1) it is general enough to handle most types of constraints; and
(2) it does not need to save intermediate results (i.e., maintaining a seed queue).

Applying this searching technique to path constraints is quite straightforward,
we just need to replace the relational operation with a loss function
($$\epsilon = 1$$):

Comparison    | Loss function $$f()$$
:-------------|:---------------------------------------------------
$$slt(a, b)$$ | $$max(sext(a,64) - sext(b,64) + \epsilon, 0)$$
$$sle(a, b)$$ | $$max(sext(a,64) - sext(b,64), 0)$$
$$sgt(a, b)$$ | $$max(sext(b,64) - sext(a,64) + \epsilon, 0)$$
$$sge(a, b)$$ | $$max(sext(b,64) - sext(a,64), 0)$$
$$ult(a, b)$$ | $$max(zext(a,64) - zext(b,64) + \epsilon, 0)$$
$$ule(a, b)$$ | $$max(zext(a,64) - zext(b,64), 0)$$
$$ugt(a, b)$$ | $$max(zext(b,64) - zext(a,64) + \epsilon, 0)$$
$$uge(a, b)$$ | $$max(zext(b,64) - zext(a,64), 0)$$
$$a = b$$     | $$abs(zext(a,64) - zext(b,64))$$
$$a \neq b$$  | $$max(-abs(zext(a,64) - zext(b,64)) + \epsilon, 0)$$

Note that this heuristic is not the most efficient one.
For example, the input-to-state inference heuristic from [RedQueen](https://www.ndss-symposium.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/ndss2019_04A-2_Aschermann_paper.pdf)
could be faster, as shown in FuzzySat.
But it is more general and easy to implement.

#### Making Things More Scalable

So far we have a simple fuzzer to fuzz the path constraints.
To make the fuzzer more scalable to multiple threads/cores,
we applied a few more optimizations to minimize potential lock contention.
First, each thread has its own LLVM JIT engine to avoid sharing.
Second, we use a lock-free queue to dispatch solving tasks to different threads.
Third, we implemented the code cache using a lock-free hash table.
Finally, we minimize dynamic memory allocation and use the TCMalloc
from Google to reduce contentions caused by `malloc` and `free`.

### Performance

So can we actually improve the fuzzing performance, or to be more specific,
the performance of concolic execution, since we need to collect and solve
path constraints. To answer this question, we followed SymCC and conducted
a concolic execution evaluation: using the corpora from [NUEZZ](https://github.com/Dongdongshe/neuzz),
we ask each fuzzer to flip all symbolic branches of each input file and
record the turnaround time and the final basic block coverage measured by SanitizerCoverage.
Note that we turned off all input level timeout to make sure all symbolic
branches along the trace will be processed.
Here JIGSAW and Z3-10s (10s means the timeout for each path constraints)
both uses Kirenenko as the constraint collector, the only difference is the solver.
Angora uses the same fuzzing heuristic as JIGSAW but each input is evaluated
with the whole program.
[SymCC](https://github.com/eurecom-s3/symcc) also uses Z3 as the path constraint solver with 10s as the timeout.
[Fuzzolic](https://season-lab.github.io/fuzzolic/) uses FuzzySat as the solver.

Program | JIGSAW  | Z3-10s | Angora | SymCC  | Fuzzolic 
:-------| ------: | ------:| ------:| ------:| -------:
readelf |    2.2h |  51.3h |  89.5h | 546.6h |   48.2h
objdump |   12.3h | 227.5h | 411.5h | 373.5h |   52.2h
nm      |    0.3h |  18.1h |  72.3h |  29.3h |   48.2h
size    |    0.1h |   8.4h |  16.8h |  12.6h |    5.2h
libxml2 |    0.2h |   9.3h |  58.0h |  52.3h |   20.9h


Program | JIGSAW  | Z3-10s | Angora | SymCC  | Fuzzolic
:-------| ------: | ------:| ------:| ------:| -------:
readelf |    7923 |   7957 |   8287 |   6410 |    5843
objdump |    4926 |   4926 |   4846 |   4929 |    4689
nm      |    3347 |   3347 |   3339 |   3122 |    3123
size    |    2453 |   2457 |   2406 |   2229 |    2259
libxml2 |    6038 |   6233 |   5952 |   6012 |    6022

Based on the coverage, we can see that JIGSAW is not as capable as Z3
(due to limitations of the gradient-guided search), it is much faster.
And this is achieved with a single solving thread and no vectorization.

### More Details

If you're interested, you can find more details and evaluation results
(e.g., comparison with SMT solvers) in our [paper](https://www.cs.ucr.edu/~csong/oakland22-jigsaw.pdf).

The source code of JIGSAW can be found [here](https://github.com/R-Fuzz/jigsaw).
The current released code is the C++ version, we also have a Rust version
that needs some cleanup.
The vectorized version also needs some update.

### What's Next

In short term, we will continue to improve JIGSAW by incorporating better
fuzzing heuristics and supporting other types of constraints.

In long term, we hope Kirenenko and JIGSAW can serve as a foundation to solve
other bottlenecks in concolic execution, such as the path explosion problem.
